---
sidebar_position: 4
slug: './project'
---

# Create a New Project

Jetty is configured via projects. Projects store information about your data infrastructure and are the central repository for user-managed configurations, such as tag definitions.

## Jetty Init

To create and configure a new project, open your terminal and run

```
jetty init
```

The init prompts will help you connect Jetty to Snowflake, dbt, and/or Tableau, and then will set up a new directory for your project.

:::tip
Jetty only stores the login information you provide on your local machine. The saved information can be reviewed and modified at `~/.jetty/connectors.yaml`. The Jetty project directory itself is safe to be tracked and shared via version control tools like git.
:::

Below is the information you will need for each connector:

<details>
  <summary><strong>Snowflake</strong></summary>
  <div>
    <p>To read the relevant metadata from Snowflake, Jetty needs to use an account with the <code>SECURITYADMIN</code> role and usage permissions on a warehouse.</p>
    <p>To make setup easy, be ready with the following:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>Your Snowflake account identifier. This is easiest to get in SQL with <code>SELECT current_account();</code>. This field can be the account locator (like <code>cea29483</code>) or org account name, dash-separated (like <code>MRLDK-ESA98348</code>) See <a href="https://tinyurl.com/snow-account-id">the documentation</a> for more.</li>
      <li>The name of the Snowflake user you would like Jetty to use. We recommend creating a new user specifically for Jetty.</li>
      <li>The name of a warehouse your Jetty user has the <code>USAGE</code> privilege on.</li>
    </ol>
  </div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary><strong>dbt</strong></summary>
  <div>
    <p>Jetty uses dbt as a source for in-Snowflake lineage data. For this to work, Jetty needs access to your dbt project.</p>
    <p>To make setup easy, be ready with the following:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>The path to your dbt project</li>
      <li>Your Snowflake account identifier. This helps link your dbt project to the right Snowflake account.</li>
    </ol>
    <p>Once Jetty can access your dbt project, it will check for the <code>target/manifest.json</code> file, and if it can't find one, ask you to generate one with <code>dbt docs generate</code>.</p>
    <hr />
    <p>
      <strong>Note:</strong> Today Jetty only supports dbt Core projects. Please <a href="mailto:support@get-jetty.com">let us know</a> if you would like
      to use Jetty with dbt Cloud.
    </p>
  </div>
</details>

<details>
  <summary><strong>Tableau</strong></summary>
  <div>
    <p>To read the relevant metadata from Tableau, Jetty needs credentials to an account with account or site admin privileges.</p>
    <p>To make setup easy, be ready with the following:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>Your Tableau URL (something like <code>fs.online.tableau.com</code>).</li>
      <li>Your Tableau site name.</li>
      <li>The username of the user Jetty will use to connect.</li>
      <li>The password of the user Jetty will use to connect.</li>
    </ol>
  </div>
</details>

Once you complete the `jetty init` flow, you are ready to fetch and explore the access control metadata from your environment.
