---
sidebar_position: 7
slug: './apply'
---

# Apply your Changes

Once you've updated your configurations you can use `jetty diff` to see the changes that will be made in your environment, `jetty plan` to see the SQL queries or API requests that will be used to make those changes, and `jetty apply` to actually apply the changes.

:::tip Don't worry!
As a reminder, the changes you made to your configuration files won't be applied until you run `jetty apply`, feel free to still run `jetty diff` and `jetty plan` even if you don't want to actually make any changes.
:::

## Jetty Diff

You can see Jetty's representation of the changes that need to be made in your environment by running `jetty diff`.

:::caution SNOWFLAKE
Results from `jetty diff` from snowflake may be up to two hours old. For performance reasons, Jetty uses information from the `SNOWFLAKE.ACCOUNT_USAGE` schema to build Snowflake permissions.

:::info ACTION
Preview the changes you made to the config files by running:

```
jetty diff
```

:::

## Jetty Plan

While `jetty diff` shows you how Jetty describes that changes that need to be made, `jetty plan` asks the connectors to plan the requests necessary to execute the changes Jetty proposes. This command returns the specific SQL queries or API requests that will be used to make the changes, and gives users a chance to audit any changes before they happen.

:::tip
Jetty is still a beta product, so we recommend running `jetty plan` to make sure that any changes have been planned as you would expect them to be.
:::

:::info ACTION
Preview the planned updates by running:

```
jetty plan
```

:::

## Jetty Apply

`jetty apply` executes the requests previewed by `jetty plan`. As part of the apply process, Jetty will fetch the latest metadata from our environment before and after running the requests shown in `jetty plan`. By fetching before, Jetty ensures that the plans are built using the most up-to-date information. After applying the changes, Jetty fetches the now-updated environment metadata, and uses that to automatically run `jetty diff`. This makes it easy to see what changes were applied properly, and what changes, if any, ran into errors.

:::caution SNOWFLAKE
Results from `jetty diff` from snowflake may be up to two hours old. For performance reasons, Jetty uses information from the `SNOWFLAKE.ACCOUNT_USAGE` schema to build Snowflake permissions.

:::info ACTION
Once you feel satisfied with the planned changes, apply those changes with:

```
jetty apply
```

:::
